Welcome to the last video in Section 4 in this video we're going to be making a nice useful but fairly
simple basic phrases app which we're going to build on the structure that we created in the previous
video.
So it's a simple English to French app.
And if you tap on the buttons
you get the basic phrase that you need.
So nice and simple but actually quite functional and useful.
The one challenge you'll have is trying to combine these into a single method rather than having a separate
method for each button having a single method and then having a way to play whichever sound relates
to the button that the user tapped tapetum.
So that's the challenge here.
But to get your actual phrases you have two options.
So I've got my phrases from languages dot com and I've used the French and B-3 and they've got a huge
range of completely free MP 3s so you can customize your app as you like.
You can use a different language if you want but if you want the super easy version where you don't
have to manually download each phrase you can just go to Android dev cause dot com forward slash phrases
dot zip and that will download the phrases that I use in this app.
So you've got them all in one go.
All right.
You should definitely be able to build this app.
So time to post the video and give it a shot.
Best of luck.
All right.
I hope that went well.
I'm going to start by bringing in
the sounds into the hours also follow up which all day in the usual way by opening the folder in Finder
or Windows Explorer and then creating a new folder.
Rule and I'm just going to drag
the phrases directly in to the roar folder.
Now they're all fantastic.
Now as I mentioned the challenge is going to be setting this up with a single method works regardless
of which button has been pressed and it plays the appropriate sound or Fridays.
And as you hopefully guessed I'm going to do that with tags.
So I'm going to update each button as we go and I'll just work my way down the list.
So do you
speak English.
And then the tag
is going to be the name of the file.
So do you speak English.
And then I can use the tag directly to access the file.
All right.
Here we go.
Good evening.
Just copy the
case for the tag
or while we're going.
I'll update the id the update.
The IDs aren't particularly important so I'm just going to use.
Button one button to etc..
Then we've got Halet that perhaps should have been at the beginning but you can move them around yourself
if you like.
I will leave this in info.
But feel free to skip forward 30 seconds I'll say if you get the idea or just do this along with me
in our on button five
Hi live in
button 6
my name I'll keep pasting caps
nearly there.
Please it doesn't make much difference.
But just to keep it all in the same style stick to Kappes
and there we go.
So you got a bit of an issue there with.
Do you speak English as being a bit greedy with space.
So let's see if we can
use a new line to even that out.
Let me guess the backslash and gives you a new line which should keep everything nicely aligned.
So now it's just a matter of adding an on click to each of these playing the name of the file that's
in the tag let's give it a go.
So will the on click
like then
I might be editing something fancy with find and replace but I think it's quicker here just to pasted
in each time and then we're just going to jump over to our Java file and create the play Euphrase method.
All right.
So I'll just run the app in the background so I was waiting for it later on.
And then create play phrase.
And initially all L.D. with the method is log the tag of the button that's been pressed that should
be enough I'm fairly confident that we'll get that far.
So it will have a button pressed
variable which will cast the button and get from the few.
And then we'll log
button pressed and then will access button pressed to get tag and then convert that to a string
OK.
Let's have a look.
So the louts looking at happy with that.
So let's just press a few of these buttons
and this is looking at
wonderful.
So all we have to do is play the audio file associated with the tag.
However it's not quite as simple as you might think.
If we try and create our media player
we'll use we have before so Media Player create.
Now before we used our DOT roll and then we just use the name of the audio file.
Nice and easy but we actually want to use a variable here i.e. the value of the tag.
And if we try and use something like button pressed to get a tag it won't work because it's expecting
the name of the RAW file directly.
So we're going to need to find a way round this so that we can use our variable name to play the file.
So that's consult Google and see if we can find a solution.
So we want something like Java Android play sound file with variable something like that.
OK that top result sound file is variable in Android media play.
Ok that looks promising.
Looks like they want to do what we want today and that looks perfect.
So the difference is here we're using media player to create and then this for the context and then
get resources.
And this is where we're using the name of the file which we can put in as our tag.
Excellent.
So let's copy over.
I generally recommend copying over as little as possible
little as possible chance of either getting confused or copying code that's wrong or doesn't do what
you expect.
So the thing we need to change the name of the file and that is just button pressed.
Get a tag dot to string
and it's type of roll and it's going to be in our package.
All right.
Let's give it a try.
So Media Player don't start should With any luck do the trick.
Let's give it a go.
There you go.
Excellent.
So that's created our basic phrases have and worked in the way we wanted it to.
And it also brings us to the end of this section where you've learned how to work with animations.
Build a fairly complicated connect three game and include all audio and video in your apps and work
with tags to create a basic phrases app.
So as always congratulations go get yourself a cup of tea and a biscuit.
Give yourself a pat on the back.
But don't get too complacent because there's still a huge amount more to learn.
We're going to be looking at list views at the beginning of the next section to enable you to show a
whole long list of data and movie making apps like egg timers brain trainers and internet connected
apps like guess the celebrity and what's the weather.
So a huge amount more to learn see in the next section.